.TH LibFTG 3 "Fevrier 25 2018"
.SH NAME
LibFTG - Library Fourty-Two Graphical.
.SH SYNOPSYS
#include "libftg.h"

.SH DESCRIPTION
Libftg is the standard lib for shutting your mouth, or handle vectors, matrixes,
quaternions and such.

.SH INCLUDE FILE
.B libftg.h
should be included for every use of the lib, contains all the structures for 
the lib to work well (t_vec, t_quat, t_quatv) and all the prototypes for the
functions of the lib.

.SH LIBRARY FUNCTIONS

.I Conversion functions
.P
.B float	ftg_degtorad(float angle)
: takes an angle, return a radian
.fi
.B float	ftg_radtodeg(float angle)
: takes a radian, return an angle
.P

.I Vector handling functions
.P
.B t_vec	ftg_vecdef(float x, float y, float z)
: Return a structure (not malloc'ed) with x y and z set.
.P
.B t_vec	ftg_vecadd(t_vec a, t_vec b)
: Return the result of vector a + vector b.
.P
.B t_vec	ftg_vecsub(t_vec 1, t_vec b)
: Return the result of vector a - vector b.
.P
.B t_vec	ftg_vecnormalize(t_vec a)
: Return the result of vector 'a' normalized.
.P
.B t_vec	ftg_vecscale(t_vec a, float s)
: Return the result of the scalar multiplication a * s.
.P
.B t_vec	ftg_vecdiv(t_vec a, float s)
: Return the result of the scalar division a / s.
.P
.B t_vec	ftg_veccross(t_vec a, t_vec b)
: Return the result of cross product a x b.
.P
.B float	ftg_vecdot(t_vec a, t_vec b)
: Return the result of dot product a . b (in a float).
.P
.B float	ftg_vecnorm(t_vec a)
: Return the norm of the vector a.
.P
.B t_vec	ftg_vecrotquat(t_vec a, t_quat b)
: Return the result of the rotation of the vector a by the quaternion b.
.P

.I Quaternion handling functions
.P
.B t_quat	ftg_quatdef(float x, float y, float z, float w)
: return the quaternion with x, y, z and w set.
.P
.B t_quat	ftg_quatvecdef(t_vec a, float w)
: return the quaternion with the vector a as x, y, z and w as w.
.P
.B t_quat	ftg_quatrotdef(float x, float y, float z, float w)
: return the quaternion with x, y, z as the axis of rotation, and w as the angle
of rotation around a (in degrees).
.P
.B t_quat	ftg_quatvecrotdef(t_vec a, float w)
: return the quaternion with the vector a as x, y, z and w as the angle of rotation
around the a axis (in degrees).
.P
.B t_quat	ftg_quatadd(t_quat a, t_quat b)
: return the result of a + b.
.P
.B t_quat	ftg_quatsub(t_quat a, t_quat b)
: return the result of a - b.
.P
.B float	ftg_quatnorm(t_quat a)
: return the norm of the vector a.
.P
.B t_quat	ftg_quatnormalize(t_quat a)
: return the vector a normalized.
.P
.B t_quat	ftg_quatconj(t_quat a)
: return the conjugate of a.
.P
.B t_quat	ftg_quatcross(t_quat a, t_quat b)
: return the result of the cross product of the quaternion a x quaternion b
.P
.B t_quat	ftg_quatrotadd(t_quat a, t_quat b)
: return the result of adding roation from quaternion b to rotation a.
.P

.SH SEE ALSO
Google, your left neighbour, your right neighbour, RTFM.

.SH AUTHOR
2018 Thomas Oliver
